who, when and where was proposed k-anonymity
what is k-anonymity
why is k-anonymity needed
how does it work
shortcomings and limitations


Categories
Privacy
— L-Diversity
— K-Anonymity
- Distinguishing Factor

Severity
- M-Score
- L-Severity

Privacy is different from severity

impact on lives vs impact on organization vs impact on x

substitute dependency factor for k-anonymity

determine if the leaked table satisfies k-anonymous 

Categorizing the type of leakage - * another factor

Frequency - * another factor

per record vs dimensions [overall privacy, frequency, cause of leakage] - provide index for each type
f(x) * []

time of attack from detection

obtaining severity index of sensitive attributes will vary

Severity based on linkages



5 reasons why severity quantification is important

1. Regulations - ENISA
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) handles security  throughout the european union (EU)
Guidelines and procedures to protect against data breaches
Prepare
Detect
Notify
Response
A demand for accuracy on the impact of handling data on the users’ personal lives
Defines what would require and exempt user consent for publication of data
Anonymizes data
Impact on the lives of users
Reason for publication
Opt-out options
States specific purpose
No personal/sensitive 

2. Trend - .5% of all data is analyzed, getting smaller as data grows
Big data saves money and increases efficiency
Changing landscape
Increase investments in modern data warehouse technologies
utilize operational data and big data analytics
includes real time analytics

3. Many Variables
a. Criticality of data [l-severity]
b. How easily data can be identified [not emphasized]
c. How breach occurred [no index/included in quantification]
d. Industry specific metrics

breach of confidential saw 5% in stock price
suffering a non confidential breach had no effect
Lost about 2.1% of their market value within 2 days≥

severity increase is positive relationship with breaking k-anonymity

who: organizations, users
what: data breach
when: leaked data
where: can be in multiple places, linked data
why: see above
how: quantification

Different types of attacks or severity of attacks

Experiment - implement in application layer, provide multiple sources

http://www.businessinsider.com/mind-blowing-growth-and-power-of-big-data-2015-6



Definitions:

data - person specific data organized within a table
tuple - row or record within the table. Tuples may or may not be unique
columns - aliased with attribute, will contain values. Attributes can have their own domain.
inference - derive knowledge from other information
disclosure - intentional or non-intentional release of personal information
anonymized/generalized/disclosure control - identify and reduce risk of unintended disclosure
quasi-identifier - an attribute that can be used in combination with other attributes to uniquely identify an individual.






k-anonymity - each sequence of quasi identifier values occurs k number of times. 

Who:Sweeney et al.
What: Anonymized data
When: Releasing data
Where:
Public information
Why: Need for privacy protection

Unique based on small set, 5 digit zip, gender, date of birth
health and other public information is in this common form
Re-identification -information can be reused and linked to other data

Background - Not new concept
Statistical Databases - Commonly released in federal and state statistics. Data is often personal and is used for analysis such as data mining and fraud detection. Some techniques to anonymize this data involves adding noise. However, adding noise can make the data unreliable. 
Multi-level databases Multi-level databases MDB have data stored in different classifications. Higher classified information should not be derived from lower classified data. Although database design can help resolve these issues, there are other obstacles that remain. For example, data is often replicated and distributed amongst many sources. The data is then released on that party’s discretion. One technique is the suppress all sensitive data, but this can reduce the data quality or leave the data unusable. 

Security vs Privacy - Security can protect against a direct breach, but not from information that can be inferred.

Multiple queries - individual queries can leak insensitive data, but when used together can infer sensitive information. 


Problems:

matching attack
1. Unsorted matching attack - Positions of the tuples in each table correspond to those in the private table
GT1 is released, GT2 is released, both must be randomly sorted

2. Complementary Released Table - Use 2 generalized tables to form a linked table, which together form a primary/unique key. Can be addressed by reassessing quasi-identifiers for new generalized table, or no value more specific that the original table should be released. For example, a zip code of 0213* vs 02139. 

3. Temporal attack - Adding more data t PT. New generalized table called GTti. Linking can reveal unique rows in the private table. One way to avoid this is to base solutions on adding new records to the original released table. 



How:Cannot distinguish from at least k-1 subjects


weigh quasi identifier attributes
weigh the influence of the DF

1. Weight the impact of privacy
[1+x]/# of quasi
/k (assume constant k)
[(1+x)/k] + severity

privacy more than just a constant
can be weighted
impact

2. Determine if row abides to k-anonymity
3. Future research








Background knowledge doe snot lead to a privacy breach

Strong background knowledge


http://en.fasoo.com/data/users/309/files/907/10895/FasooDataSecurityFramework.pdf?src=email&kw=000072

